New section for Tutorial - Creating Tables for Umbraco with PetaPoco (#2793)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: Tutorials/Creating-Tables-for-Umbraco-with-PetaPoco/index-v7.md

---
versionFrom: 7.0.0
---
# Tutorial - Creating Tables in Umbraco with PetaPoco

## Overview

> This guide will take you steps to create tables in Umbraco using Peta Pocos and the ability to access that data in that table

Reviewer: Would it make sense to add a link to Peta Pocos here perhaps?

```suggestion
This guide will take you through the steps needed to create tables in Umbraco using PetaPoco and the ability to access data in those tables.
```

## What is Peta Poco?

> PetaPoco is a tiny & fast micro-ORM for . NET. It is tiny with abosoutely no dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PetaPoco is a tiny & fast micro-ORM for .NET. It is tiny with no dependencies.
```

> ## Requirements Needed to Use PetaPoco

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Requirements needed to use PetaPoco
```

> - Umbraco 7+ with a SQL Database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Umbraco 7+ with an SQL Database
```

> - Umbraco 8+ does not support Peta Poco

Reviewer: Instead of mentioning this here, it would be great to add the a YAML tag instead at the top.
So, under the `versionFrom` tag, add the `versionRemoved` to make it clear that this tutorial cannot be used for Umbraco 8.

```suggestion
```

- Nuget Peta Poco Package - Optional (https://www.nuget.org/packages/PetaPoco/)

> ## Steps to Create Your First Table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Steps to create your first table
```

- [Setting up the folders](#setting-up-the-folders)
- [Creatung our first table](#creating-our-first-table)
- [Implementing new table](#implementing-new-table)
- [Accessing the new table](#accessing-the-new-table)

## Related Links

> [CollaboratingPlatypus/PetaPoco](https://github.com/CollaboratingPlatypus/PetaPoco)

Reviewer: What does this link to?
Would be good with some more context to this related link! :)

## Setting up the folders 

> First, we need set up structure for our data and tables. Under the `App_Code` folder, create a `Recipes`.  Next under `Recipes` create a folder called `Models` and under that folder create a folder called `pocos` or `PetaPocos`. In the `pocos` or `PetaPocos` folder the table will be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we need set up structure for our data and tables. Under the `App_Code` folder, create a `Recipes` folder.  Next under `Recipes` create a folder called `Models` and under that folder create a folder called `pocos` or `PetaPocos`. In the `pocos` or `PetaPocos` folder the table will be created.
```

    [ExplicitColumns]

    public class recipe
    {
    
        [Column("RecipeId")]
        [PrimaryKeyColumn(AutoIncrement = true)]
        public int RecipeId { get; set; }
     
        [Column("RecipeName")]
        [Length(250)]
        public string RecipeName { get; set; }

        [Column("Description")]
        [SpecialDbType(SpecialDbTypes.NTEXT)]
        public string Description { get; set; }

        [Column("Directions")]
        [SpecialDbType(SpecialDbTypes.NTEXT)]
        public string Directions { get; set; }

        [Column("ServingSize")]
        [NullSetting(NullSetting = NullSettings.Null)]
        [Length(100)]
        public string ServingSize { get; set; }

        [Column("DateSubmitted")]
        public DateTime DateSubmitted { get; set; }

        [Column("DateApproved")]
        [NullSetting(NullSetting = NullSettings.Null)]
        public DateTime DateApproved { get; set; }

        [Column("UserId")]
        [NullSetting(NullSetting = NullSettings.Null)]
        public int UserId { get; set; }
       
        [Column("CategoryID")]
        public int CategoryID { get; set; }
        
    }

}
```

## Implementing new table

> Next we want to implement the table to Umbraco website and database. First we will create a `PetaPocoApplicationEventHandler.cs` file under the `Recipes` folder. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next we want to implement the table in the Umbraco website as well as the database. First we will create a `PetaPocoApplicationEventHandler.cs` file under the `Recipes` folder. 
```

![Here is the location of the file](images/folderlocation2.png)

> This file will help us create the new table `Recipe` for our site. Thing to note in the sample code, `ApplicationEevntHandler` and `Umbraco.Core.Persistence` are required to create the table. The fisrt line is neccessary to access the table code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file will help us create the new table `Recipe` for our site. One thing to note in the sample code, `ApplicationEevntHandler` and `Umbraco.Core.Persistence` are required to create the table. The first line is necessary to access the table code:
```

```csharp
using Recipes.Models.pocos;
using Umbraco.Core;
using Umbraco.Core.Persistence;

namespace Recipes
{
    public class PetaPocoApplicationEventHandler : ApplicationEventHandler
    {
        protected override void ApplicationStarted(UmbracoApplicationBase umbracoApplication, ApplicationContext applicationContext)
        {
            var ctx = applicationContext.DatabaseContext;
            var db = new DatabaseSchemaHelper(ctx.Database, applicationContext.ProfilingLogger.Logger, ctx.SqlSyntax);

            if (!db.TableExist("CMSRecipes"))
            {
                db.CreateTable<recipe>(false);
            }    

        }
    }
}

```
Once you restart the site, the table will be created. You will be thrown errors for any code issues before the table is created.

> If you have access to the database, you can use `Microsoft SQL Server Manaagement Studio` to check for the table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have access to the database, you can use `Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio` to check for the table.
```

            UmbracoDatabase db = Umbraco.Core.ApplicationContext.Current.DatabaseContext.Database;
            db.Save(items);
            return items;

        }
        // Gets Recipe By Id
        public static recipe GetRecipe(int RecipeId)
        {
            UmbracoDatabase db = Umbraco.Core.ApplicationContext.Current.DatabaseContext.Database;
            List<recipe> Recid = db.Fetch<recipe>("SELECT * FROM CMSRecipes WHERE Recipeid = @0", RecipeId);
            db.CompleteTransaction();
            db.CloseSharedConnection();
            if (Recid.Count > 0)
                return Recid[0];
            else
                return null;
        }
        // Get Recipe By Name
        public static recipe GetRecipeID(string RecipeName)
        {
            UmbracoDatabase db = Umbraco.Core.ApplicationContext.Current.DatabaseContext.Database;
            List<recipe> Recid = db.Fetch<recipe>("SELECT RecipeID FROM CMSRecipes WHERE RecipeName = @0", RecipeName);
            db.CompleteTransaction();
            db.CloseSharedConnection();
            if (Recid.Count > 0)
                return Recid[0];
            else
                return null;
        }

    }
}    
```

> Now once, we built our methods to access the data, we can use them in either `Template`, `Partial View` or a `Macro`. When any of those files are being built, you must have the path to poco in your file. Here is an example of accessing the data in a `Partial View Macro`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, once we built our methods to access the data, we can use them in either `Template`, `Partial View`, or a `Macro`. When any of those files are being built, you must have the path to poco in your file. Here is an example of accessing the data in a `Partial View Macro`:
```

> ``` csharp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```csharp
```

    
            <thead>
                <tr>

                    <th>Name</th>
                    <th></th>
                    <th>Status</th>
                    <th>Date Submitted</th>

                </tr>
            </thead>

            @{
            foreach (var Allrecs in Recipes.GetAdminRecipes())
            {

            <tr>
                <td><a href="/recipe-update-form.aspx?id=@Allrecs.RecipeId">@Allrecs.RecipeName</a></td>
                <td><a href="/recipe-page?id=@Allrecs.RecipeId&@Allrecs.RecipeName">View</a></td>
                <td>
                    @switch (@Allrecs.StatusId)
                    {
                    case 1:
                    <div>Submitted</div>
                    break;
                    case 2:
                    <div>Approved</div>
                    break;
                    case 3:
                    <div>Rejected</div>
                    break;
                    case 4:
                    <div>Deleted</div>
                    break;

                    }
                </td>
                <td>@Allrecs.DateSubmitted</td>
            </tr>

            }

            }

        </table>
```

> ## In conclusion:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Conclusion
```

> This is a simple way to implement external tables into Umbraco Website

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a way of implementing external database tables into your Umbraco website.
```

```

> ## Conclusion:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Conclusion
```
